AI Agent  and SKILL for What's New gen from Release Notes (#36863)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: .github/agents/whats-new-from-release-notes.agent.md

  by generating include files from dotnet/core preview release notes and
  adding them to the What's New article in dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs.
  Use this agent when processing new .NET preview release notes into the
  What's New article, or when checking for incremental updates to
  already-processed release notes.
tools:
  - githubread
  - lexical-code-search
  - semantic-code-search
ai-usage: ai-assisted
author: tdykstra
ms.author: wpickett
ms.date: 03/11/2026
---

# What's New Release Notes Agent for ASP.NET Core Documentation

## Goal

Transform ASP.NET Core preview release notes from the `dotnet/core` repository
into include files for the cumulative "What's New in ASP.NET Core in .NET {VERSION}"
article in `dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs`. This agent handles both initial creation of
include files for a new preview and incremental updates when release notes are
revised after initial processing.

## Inputs

When invoking this agent, provide the following context (or let the agent auto-discover):

| Parameter | Required | Default | Description |
|-----------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `VERSION` | Yes | — | The .NET major version (e.g., `11.0`) |

> | `PREVIEW` | No | *(auto-discover)* | The specific preview to process (e.g., `preview3`). If omitted, the agent discovers the latest unprocessed preview. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `PREVIEW` | No | *(auto-discover)* | The specific preview to process (for example, `preview3`). If omitted, the agent discovers the latest unprocessed preview. |
```

| `SOURCE_REF` | No | `main` | The branch or commit in `dotnet/core` to read release notes from. Use this when release notes exist on a branch before merging to main. |
| `MODE` | No | `auto` | One of: `auto`, `new-preview`, `incremental`. Controls whether the agent creates files for a new preview, updates existing ones, or auto-detects. |

## Skill Dependencies

* **Skill**: [whats-new-include-content-rules](../skills/whats-new-include-content-rules/SKILL.md) — content rules and formatting standards for include files.

---

## Step 0: Gather context and detect what's already done

### 0a: Resolve source parameters

Before reading any files, resolve the following parameters. If the invoker
provided explicit values, use them. Otherwise, auto-discover.

> | Parameter | Required | Default | Description |

Reviewer: Should the same table from the inputs section be here as well?
